Coincidence or not: what really happened during the 2019 Wuhan Military World Games?

Source:CCTV.com 13 -08-21 02:09 Updated BJT

By Wang Jie

Coincidences do happen every day in human society. But when it comes to a major global

health crisis, absolute coincidences can't cover the truth and certainly is not the answer

the international community is looking for.

On Oct. 18, 2019, Event 201 was held in the US by the Johns Hopkins University and the Bill

and Melinda Gates Foundation in partnership with the US Army. It simulated a global

outbreak of a novel coronavirus of respiratory tract infections, in order to che ck how well

the US can respond to such scenarios. The day coincides with the first day of the 7th

Military World Games in Wuhan, China, and in less than two months after the games,

cases of pneumonia of unknown cause were detected in China and an epidemic broke out

three months later. It's worth noting that team USA with its 369 members, the largest

delegation in history, came back from China with zero gold medal, not a reasonable record

for a world's leading military power. What's more terrifying is that fi ve of the US athletes left

Wuhan during the games on a US military aircraft due to an unknown illness. China's

Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian requested the US to release health and infection

information of the five athletes, but Washington remained silent.

In less than two months after American military athletes left Wuhan, the city was struck by

COVID-19. "Coincidentally," Italian researchers recently found antibodies against COVID -

19 in blood samples collected in the autumn of 2019. As epidemiology investi gations went

deep, Italian health officials discovered that an Italian citizen contracted the virus around

October 2019. The Italian citizen served as a volunteer in a local US military base a month

before the onset of symptoms, and had no travel history t o other countries. Moreover, many

countries have found that their epicenters were near US military bases or at places where

the US troops have had massive activities.

If Event 201 that started simultaneously with the Wuhan Military World Games was a

suspicious "coincidence", the Crimson Contagion drill held by the US military in early 2019

was more unsettling. It involved a scenario in which a massive respiratory tract infection

breaks out in China and soon impacts the US, and tested how the US military bases would

help local communities prevent the disease. The exercise mentioned China, and was

extremely similar to what happened next. Is it another coincidence or someon e in the US

can predict the future?

Determining the timeline of the pandemic's origin is a crucial and complex task. Based on

evidence and facts the world has known so far, it is not impossible that the US military has

been conducting the coronavirus research and experiments in its germ weap on labs at

military bases such as Fort Detrick.

Theories and hypotheses aside, Washington should fully embrace the origin -tracing

investigations by multiple third -party organizations, including the WHO. To keep slinging the

mud to China while concealing facts and dodging questions will only raise more d oubts

toward Washington from the international community.